# Homelessness-Group-Project-Final

    This data analytics study seeks to investigate varying conditions across the states of the U.S. 
that we think make homelessness a more viable proposition. The conditions we are studying are public policy, sheltering resources, and weather/climate. For public policy, our working hypothesis is that more states with more laws restricting the activity of homeless persons (i.e., laws banning camping in public, sleeping in public, living in vehicles, loitering, and pandhandling), will have lower rates of homelessness than states with more "lax" laws. For sheltering, we hyptothesize that states with more sheltering resources will have higher rates of homelessness than those with fewer resources. For weather/climate, we hypothesize that milder weather conditions with very few hot humid summers and cold frigid winters will make homelessness more viable.
    We rely on several data sources as .csv files for this study. The first and most significant data
source is a study of overall homeless population across the states in 2021 entitled "Homeless Population by State.csv". We then merge this primary population data with other data sources for each section of the study. For the public policy section we use data from the National Homelessness Law Center's 2021 study entitled "HOUSING NOT HANDCUFFS 2021: STATE LAW SUPPLEMENT" which summarizes the various laws by state restricting houseless person's activities. The original data was in the appendix of a pdf file which we converted into a .csv file. The link to the original data is: https://homelesslaw.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/2021-HNH-State-Crim-Supplement.pdf. It should be noted "Restrictiveness Score" from the "2021-HNH-State-Crim-Supplement_Edited.csv" file is a score created by our team to summarize the number of boolean "True"s per state summarizing whether it is true or false if a state has a law restricting the activities of homeless persons such as setting up a tent in public. The more counts of "True" a state has, the higher its "Restrictiveness Score". For the sheltering section the U.S. department of Housing and Human Development's 2021 "Annual Homelessness Assesment Report(AHAR)" to the U.S. congress. This AHAR report was originally in the form of a .pdf file that was transformed into a .csv file by our team. For the weather/climate section of our study we rely on data from several api sources. We take api data from National Centers for Environmental information as well as data from Geoapify.
    Our study makes just a few working conclusions summarized here: First, on the public policy front,
while there is a slight negative correlation between restrictiveness by state and rates of homelessness suggesting that stricter laws make homelessness less viable, it is a very small corellation. The p-value we derive is well above the level which we could jettison any null hypothesis suggesting that the effect of state laws on homelessness is mostly a wash without further investigation. Second, on the sheltering front, our data gives us more information but also leads to somewhat contradictory conclusions. On one hand, there is a clear strong positive correlation between rates of sheltered homeless per capita and overall homeless per capita across state. On the other, when we look at the relationship of sheltered homeless as a percent of the population compared to overall homeless per capita rates, the results are a wash. It would seem further research could be useful here to clear up this apparent contradiction. On the weather data, we find there is a small negative correlation between a state's average temperature and rates of homelessness suggesting cooler climates are more viable for homeless individuals. Again, however, the corellation is rather small and the p-value is too high for us to conclude our working hypothesis is correct without further investigation.
